how to choose the right contact lenses
for you hello and welcome to videojug
I'm Stephen Bailey I'm an ophthalmic
surgeon and ophthalmologist that's a
doctor who specialized in eye diseases
nice surgery and I'm here to tell you
about different sorts of contact lenses
and how to use them safely type 1 soft
disposable lenses first type of lens of
the soft disposable lenses they're the
most common type in use today and they
come in a variety of flavors if you like
the there are reusable ones that are
disposed of perhaps every year also
there are monthly disposable lenses and
there are some lenses that are disposed
of every two weeks or every day the most
economical to use are usually the
reusable lenses that are worn on a daily
basis for up to a year or so daily
disposables are very convenient they're
great for occasional use and the superb
for traveling because you do not have to
travel with a lot of solutions which are
heavy but they do work out more
expensive than the other types so if
they're worn everyday
then it's a relatively expensive option
compared to a reusable lens all the
reusable lenses all the ones that are
disposed of every year or so or every
month or even every two weeks do need a
rigorous cleaning and disinfection
routine type to extended wear lenses the
second type of contact lenses are soft
lenses again but instead of being worn
just for the day and being taken out in
the evening was no overnight wear
they're intended for continuous wear day
and night for a variable period usually
up to about a month when they're
replaced the most modern lenses that are
intended for continuous wear are called
silicon hydrogels they're soft lenses
again but they have a silicon material
in them which has a very very high
ability to transmit oxygen through the
lens and they are capable of meeting the
requirement of the surface of your eye
for oxygen even during overnight wear
however there are other issues with
these lenses and
it appears from current evidence that
there may be no safer in respect of
possibly sight threatening corneal
infections than the older type of
continuous wear lenses from 10 or 15
years ago type 3 hard contact lenses
they were originally the first sort of
contact lenses way back in the 50s and
60s but they've largely now been
supplanted by more modern materials
the problem was perspective lenses was
they didn't allow any oxygen through the
lens itself they had to be made quite
small therefore to allow good flow of
tears underneath the lens to supply the
surface of the eye with oxygen they do
still however have some place but it's
mostly for special needs type for rigid
gas permeable they look rather like the
hard lenses from decades ago were they
usually slightly bigger the difference
is that they're made of a material that
allows oxygen to diffuse actually
through the chemical matrix of the lens
so they combine the best of many worlds
they give good comfort over long periods
on the whole although generally not
quite as good as soft lens but they're
much more suitable for longer periods of
wear they still need very careful use
and very careful cleaning and
disinfection but overall these are the
safest type of lenses available today
type 5 coloured cosmetic lenses they
usually have a pattern on the surface
and the intention of this is to change
the apparent color of the person's eyes
they may also have an optical power so
they can correct vision too but they're
not always used for that purpose it is
very important that these lenses are
still fitted by an ophthalmologist or a
suitably qualified optician they have
the same risks as as any other lens type
and they need looking after in the same
way so they have to be taken seriously
type 6 custom lenses these lenses fall
into several different groups so there
are custom soft lenses for treating high
degrees of stigma
sometimes they're used for treating or
correcting the vision in medical
condition such as keratoconus most of
the custom-made lenses though at least
for special purposes are rigid they're
made of gas permeable materials and they
come in a wide variety of sizes and
these are lenses that are used again for
conditions of the cornea like
keratoconus or after some operations on
the I like corneal grafts finally
there's a group of lenses that are used
mostly for medical purposes and the
intention is often to disguise the
disfigured eye these lenses are mostly
custom-made and many are hand painted to
match the fellow eye good well now
you're able to go out and enjoy using
your contact lenses but do remember
always take the advice of your contact
lens practitioner and do attend for
regular check-ups every year
you